PROBLEM STATEMENT:
Data Visualization from Extraction Transformation and Loading (ETL) Process.
OBJECTIVE:
1. To understand the concept of Data Visualization.
2. To understand the Data Visualization using Power BI.
THEORY:
Data Visualization
 Data visualization aims to communicate data clearly and effectively through graphical
representation.
 Data visualization has been used extensively in many applications for example, at work for
reporting, managing business operations, and tracking progress of tasks.
 More popularly, we can take advantage of visualization techniques to discover data
relationships that are otherwise not easily observable by looking at the raw data.
 Three major trends have shaped the direction of data visualization software.
o More Chart Types. Most data visualizations are in the form of some standard chart type.
The numerical results are converted into a pie chart, a scatter plot, or another chart type.
Now the list of chart types supported by data visualization software has grown much
longer.
o Interactive Visualization. Visualizations are no longer static. Dynamic chart types are
themselves user interfaces. Your users can review a result chart, manipulate it, and then
see newer views online.
o Visualization of Complex and Large Result Sets. You users can view a simple series of
numeric result points as a rudimentary pie or bar chart. But newer visualization software
can visualize thousands of result points and complex data structures.
Drive better decision making with data visualization
 See the big picture. There’s a clear picture of performance buried within the transaction,
interaction, process, and behavioral data stored in your systems. Data visualization allows you
to recognize the broader context and higher-level scenario within it. As a result, you’ll notice
trends and spot patterns you wouldn't be able to see if you were looking at numbers on their
own.
Identify the significance. Bringing visual clarity to the story told within your data helps you
identify insights that lead to better decision making, planning, strategies, and actions. How is
your business performing, what needs to be modified, and where should you focus your
resources? The ability to understand the significance of your data drives more effective
operations and decisions.
 Make informed decisions. With concrete numbers and tangible insights, you can be confident
your decisions are backed by data. Having clear insight into performance metrics empowers
you with the knowledge and arms you with the tools to make the right decisions at the right
time.
 Track trends over time. Once you've established a baseline, trends will begin to emerge.
Track progress, spot trends, and begin using your insights to drive informed, strategic decisions.
As you build your trends, shifts in patterns indicate if things drift off track, allowing you to
immediately address any sign of lowered performance.
Power BI Desktop lets you create a variety of visualizations to gain insights from your data. You can
build reports with multiple pages and each page can have multiple visuals. You can interact with your
visualizations to help analyze and understand your data in this task, you create a report based on the
data previously loaded. You use the Fields pane to select the columns from which you create the
visualizations.

Following are the steps we have to follow to visualize data in Power BI
 Load the data in Power BI by applying ETL process.
 Select columns from Data section as shown in above figure which you want to display on chart.
Select the required chart from Visualization section.
Following output will get after selecting required visualization type.

CONCLUSION
In this way we have explored the concept of Data Visualization using Power BI