ROBLEM STATEMENT: -
Perform the Extraction Transformation and Loading (ETL) process to construct the database in the Sql
server / Power BI.

OBJECTIVE:
1. To understand the concept of Extraction Transformation and Loading (ETL) process.
2. Construction of database in Power BI by performing ETL process.

THEORY:
Extraction Transformation and Loading (ETL)

 Extraction
o During the first phase, data are extracted from the available internal and external sources.
o The selection of data to be imported is based upon the data warehouse design, which in
turn depends on the information needed by business intelligence analyses and decision
support systems operating in a specific application domain.
o Types of Data Extraction:
▪ Full Extraction: All the data from source systems or operational systems gets
extracted to staging area. (Initial Load)
▪ Partial Extraction: Sometimes we get notification from the source system to
update specific date. It is called as Delta load.

 Transformation
o The goal of the cleaning and transformation phase is to improve the quality of the data
extracted from the different sources, through the correction of inconsistencies,
inaccuracies and missing values.
o During the transformation phase, additional data conversions occur in order to guarantee
homogeneity and integration with respect to the different data sources.
o Examples
▪ Standardizing data: Data is fetched from multiple sources so it needs to be
standardized as per the target system.
▪ Character set conversion: Need to transform the character sets as per the target
systems.(First name and last name example)
▪ Data Conversion in different formats: If in source system date in DDMMYY
format and in target the date is in DDMONYYYY format then this transformation
needs to be done at transformation phase.

 Loading
Finally, after being extracted and transformed, data are loaded into the tables of the data
warehouse to make them available to analysts and decision support applications.

There are many reasons for adopting ETL in the organization:
 It helps companies to analyze their business data for taking critical business decisions.
 ETL provides a method of moving the data from various sources into a data warehouse.
 As data sources change, the Data Warehouse will automatically update.
 Well-designed and documented ETL system is almost essential to the success of a Data
Warehouse project.
 Allow verification of data transformation, aggregation and calculations rules.
 ETL helps to Migrate data into a Data Warehouse. Convert to the various formats and types to
adhere to one consistent system.
 ETL in data warehouse offers deep historical context for the business.

CONCLUSION:
In this way we have performed Extraction Transformation and Loading (ETL) process to construct the
database in Power BI.

