PROBLEM STATEMENT: - 
Import Data from different Sources such as (Excel, Sql Server, Oracle etc.) and load in targeted system. 
 
OBJECTIVE: 
1.	To introduce the concepts and components of Business Intelligence (BI). 
2.	To understand how to import the data from different sources and load in the target system 
 
 
THEORY: 
Power BI 
 
•	Microsoft Power BI is a complete reporting solution that offers data preparation, data visualization, distribution, and management through development tools and an online platform. 
•	Power BI can scale from simple reports using a single data source to reports requiring complex data modeling and consistent themes. Use Power BI to create visually stunning, interactive reports to serve as the analytics and decision engine behind group projects, divisions, or entire organizations. 
•	Power BI is an essential tool to data analysts and their organization; however, all data professionals benefit from understanding how Power BI works to explore and present data insights within organizations. 
•	There are three primary components to Power BI: 
o Power BI Desktop (desktop application) o Power BI service (online platform) o Power BI Mobile (cross-platform mobile app) 
•	Power BI Desktop is the development tool available to data analysts and other report creators. While the Power BI service allows you to organize, manage, and distribute your reports and other Power BI items. Power BI Desktop is available to download for free either through the Windows store or directly online. 
•	You can access the Power BI service at app.powerbi.com with a school or work account. 
•	Power BI Mobile allows consumers to view reports in a mobile-optimized format. You can create these optimized report views in Power BI Desktop. 


The flow of Power BI is: 
 
1.	Connect to data with Power BI Desktop. 
2.	Transform and model data with Power BI Desktop. 
3.	Create visualizations and reports with Power BI Desktop. 
4.	Publish report to Power BI service. 
5.	Distribute and manage reports in the Power BI service. 

Importing Excel Data 
1.	Launch Power BI Desktop. 
2.	From the Home ribbon, select Get Data. Excel is one of the Most Common data connections, so you can select it directly from the Get Data menu. 
3.	In the Open File dialog box, select the Products.xlsx file (you choose your file). 
4.	In the Navigator pane, select the Products table and click on the Load button. 

Importing Data from OData Feed 
1.	From the Home ribbon tab in Query Editor, select Get Data. 
2.	Browse to the OData Feed data source. 
3.	In the OData Feed dialog box, paste the URL for the Northwind OData feed. You import data into Power BI Desktop from the sample Northwind OData feed at the following URL, which you can copy (and then paste) in the steps below: http://services.odata.org/V3/Northwind/Northwind.svc/ 
4.	Select OK. 
5.	In the Navigator pane, select the Orders table and load the table. 

